now after days of mounting International
pressure and warnings of famine from
humanitarian organizations Israel says
it's allowed the largest number of a
trucks into Gaza since the War Began 6
months ago Israeli authorities say 322
trucks entered the strip most of them
carrying food before the war 500 trucks
used to arrive daily Aid organizations
accuse Israel of slowing the delivery of
humanitarian relief supplies un has
described the situation in Gaza as
man-made starvation and warned of
famine Tess Ingram is a communication
specialist at UNICEF and she joins us
live now from outside the Kuwait
Hospital in Rafa Tess great to have you
with us thanks for joining us so we've
seen this Convoy of Aid trucks entering
Gaza first of all can you help us
understand where that Aid is going and
the impact that it's
[Music]
having oh it's so important when I came
into Gaza last week I know that there
were 1,200 un and NGO trucks backed up
waiting to enter so the fact that we've
seen more trucks come in is really good
news but we need this to happen
consistently because of course Gaza is
on the precipice of a famine this food
has to get in and across the Gaza Strip
with urgency most of the children dying
of malnutrition who are in the north and
our access to that area with food ha has
been so limited so it's really important
that this Aid comes in at scale and is
continued for the days to come give us
an idea of the logistics once the aid is
inside Gaza how it is distributed from
the south to the North and the obstacles
that it
faces it's a really challenging process
um it's one of the most challenging
places in the world to be a humanitarian
Aid worker at the moment largely because
of the safety concerns as we saw with
colleagues at Word Central Kitchen on
Monday even when we coordinated Mission
with Israel that we're told is safe we
are still put at risk and that's part of
the challenge in getting the aid to the
north we're just not getting the safety
assurances we need and then of course
there's other challenges damages to
roads restrictions on where we can
travel a serious lack of trucks now and
fuel that we can use to transport the
aid so the obstacles are many but we're
still doing our best in these really
difficult circumstances to bring food
and water and medicine and nutrition
treatments to the vulnerable children
that need it how has UNICEF perhaps
changed its operations since that
Israeli strike on world Central
Kitchen we along with other un agencies
took a 48 hour pause on night operations
but we're back to full operations now
we've been here in Gaza for decades and
we're not going anywhere we're going to
stay here during the fighting stay here
as the guns fall silent and then help
the children of Gaza to rebuild once
their finally is is peace but of course
we can't do that if it's not safe so we
need these safety assurances from Israel
that when we go on a coordinated Mission
we know we're not going to be killed
Tess you're there at the Q8 Hospital in
Rafa can you tell us what's the
situation there because we know that all
medical facilities are running low on
supplies and added to that of course is
the impact of alifa hospital being taken
offline so what is the situation in the
remaining
hospitals
I visited four hospitals in the last 5
days and I can tell you that every
medical director has told me about the
impact of the lack of resources and the
lack of staff and how that's really
detrimental for the patients in these
hospitals they're running at four times
capacity children are dying from
infections children are dying from
malnutrition there just not enough stuff
and resources to go around so the needs
are great that's why we have to rush
this Aid in and it's why a sa fire well
instead we've got Israel keeping on
raising the Spectre of a ground
offensive on Rafa where you are that's
where 600,000 children are living mostly
in makeshift shelters can you envisage a
situation where they are all evacuated
to
safety no I can't there is no safe place
in Gaza to evacuate these children too
and when you walk around the streets of
Rafa here here it is so clear that this
is a city of children every second
person is a child and I've met so many
who have already been injured here in
Rafa 9-year-old who was uh shot a
10-year-old sorry who was shot in the
head in masasi um a 16-year-old whose
house fell down around her and she broke
her leg uh and a 10-year-old who has
major wounds from explosions and this is
all happening already in this area so
the children are vulnerable and they
need this fighting to end if it came
into Rafa that would just be
catastrophic Tess if I can just ask you
one more question even as you are
battling to be heard above the call to
prayer behind you there uh the
international Aid uh the in Northern
Gaza one in three children under two
years we we know that they are acutely
malnourished we've been hearing for some
time that that whole region uh is on the
edge of famine if Aid is reaching there
now is it arrival in time to prevent a
widespread famine in that in that
[Music]
region look a famine could happen at any
moment now in the north of the Gaza
Strip we've been warning about these for
months and still two little a has got
into that area we're going to try and
attempt to go there tomorrow with some
nutrition treatments that are needed to
try and help these children survive the
lack of food that they've been faced
with for months but we know that
children are dying now already at these
hospitals and they desperately need our
help even in the middle area where I was
on Wednesday I met a boy who had just
come down from the north seven years old
his name's Omar and he'd been living on
grass grass and he was so sick and
malnourished in so much pain and this
has to be unacceptable to the world when
the aid and the food is just a few
kilometers
away tragic stories indeed Tess Ingram
we really appreciate you taking the time
to bring us those stories and bring us
the situation there in Rafa Tess Ingram
with UNICEF joining us there from
outside the Q8 Hospital in
Rafa